.TH TEXTIOSRC 1 "August 2013" "textiosrc" "Configuration for textios/htmlios"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
textiosrc \- configuration file for textios and htmlios
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are two files that you need to edit in order to configure
\fBtextios\fP and \fBhtmlios\fP: \fI~/.textiosrc\fP and \fI~/.netrc\fP.
The latter is only used by \fBcurl\fP(1), though: Login credentials
are stored there.
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "RC FILE"
The file \fI~/.textiosrc\fP \(em a Bash snippet, actually \(em defines
the URLs to your Icinga and Nagios instances. It is used by
\fBtextios\fP and \fBhtmlios\fP.
.P
.nf
\f(CW
\&	author='Elliot Spencer'
\&	monitors=(
\&		monitorlabel
\&		type
\&		status_base_url
\&		cmd_url
\&
\&		anothermonitor
\&		type
\&		status_base_url
\&		cmd_url
\&
\&		...
\&	)
\fP
.fi
.P
\fIauthor\fP is the name which will be used for acknowledgements and
downtimes. It is NOT the username with which you log in to your
monitoring systems (this is set in your \fI~/.netrc\fP). Depending on
your setup, this option might or might not work. If you don't set this
option, the value of $\fBUSER\fP will be used.
.P
As you can see, four consecutive elements belong to one monitoring
instance:
.TP
.I monitorlabel
This can be set to anything, like the name of the location
that is monitored by this Icinga/Nagios instance. You can later filter
using these labels.
.TP
.I type
Can be \fBicinga\fP or \fBnagios\fP.
.TP
.I status_base_url
This must be the URL to your \fIstatus.dat\fP (if Nagios) or the URL
to Icinga's \fIstatus.cgi\fP:

.nf
\f(CW
\&  https://icinga.my-domain.foo/cgi-bin/icinga/status.cgi
\fP
.fi

.TP
.I cmd_url
Must point to your \fIcmd.cgi\fP, e.g.:

.nf
\f(CW
\&  https://icinga.my-domain.foo/cgi-bin/icinga/cmd.cgi
\fP
.fi
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "RC FILE FOR CURL"
See \fBnetrc\fP(5).
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHORS
See the accompanying \fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR textios (1),
.BR htmlios (1),
.BR vim (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR netrc (5)
