.TH TEXTIOS 1 "August 2013" "textios" "Text interface to Icinga and Nagios"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
textios \- text interface to Icinga and Nagios
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtextios\fP [\fIOPTION...\fP] [\fILOCATIONS\fP]
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtextios\fP provides you with a textual interface to the monitoring
systems Icinga and Nagios. It's an interactive tool that spawns
\fBvim\fP(1). There, you can specify commands like acknowledging a
service problem. \fBcurl\fP(1) is used for downloads and uploads.
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
By default, \fBtextios\fP only shows CRITICAL and UNKNOWN services, DOWN
and UNREACHABLE hosts and it also omits soft states. Information for all
locations will be shown. You can alter that behaviour using the
following options.
.TP
.B \-a
Show \fBeverything\fP, i.e. all filtering turned off.
.TP
.B \-w
Includes the state WARNING for services.
.TP
.B \-h
Only show hosts. That is, to show all hosts (and not their services),
you'll need to use \fB\-ah\fP. This is useful when scheduling downtimes.
.TP
.B \-S
Show soft states as well.
.TP
.B \-A
Show acknowledged problems as well.
.TP
.B \-D
Show services and hosts in downtimes as well.
.TP
.B \-c \fITARGET\fP
No interactive usage. Instead, copy all internal data to \fITARGET\fP.
Useful for integration with \fBhtmlios\fP(1). Note: \fITARGET\fP must be
an absolute path.
.P
After these options, you can specify several locations. For example, if
you've configured the locations \(lqffm\(rq, \(lqber\(rq and
\(lqnur\(rq, you'd have to use the following command to show all service
problems (including warnings) at \(lqffm\(rq and \(lqber\(rq:
.P
.nf
\f(CW
\&	$ textios -w 'ffm ber'
\fP
.fi
.P
Note: The locations must be given as one single argument.
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "INTERACTIVE COMMANDS"
Once you're in \fBvim\fP(1), you can prefix a line with a command.
Here's what you can do:
.TP
\fBack\fP [\fICOMMENT\fP]
Acknowledge a problem. The comment is optional and defaults to
\fBAcknowledged\fP.
.TP
\fBdown\fP [\fIDATE\fP [\fITIME\fP]] [\fICOMMENT\fP]
Schedule a service downtime. \fIDATE\fP, \fITIME\fP and \fICOMMENT\fP
are optional and default to \(lqtoday\(rq, \fB12:00\fP and \fBScheduled
Downtime\fP. You have to specify the date as \fB%Y-%m-%d\fP and the time
\fB%H:%M\fP, leading zeroes mandatory in both cases.
.TP
\fBhdown\fP [\fIDATE\fP [\fITIME\fP]] [\fICOMMENT\fP]
Like \fBdown\fP but schedules and downtime for the whole host.
.TP
\fBdown\fP \fB+\fP\fIN\fP [\fICOMMENT\fP]
.TQ
\fBhdown\fP \fB+\fP\fIN\fP [\fICOMMENT\fP]
Schedule a (host) downtime that lasts for the next \fIN\fP hours.
.P
So, if you wanted to acknowledge all problems regarding Apache web
servers, you'd do this in \fBvim\fP(1):
.P
.nf
\f(CW
\&	:windo g/apache/s/^/ack I'll take care of it.
\fP
.fi
.P
The \fB:windo\fP is needed if you're displaying information about
multiple locations because \fBtextios\fP will tell \fBvim\fP(1) to open
one split window for each location.
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH CONFIGURATION
See \fBtextiosrc\fP(5).
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH BUGS
Currently, no bugs are known. If you find one, we invite you to report
it at the GitHub Issue tracker (http://github.com/vain/textios/issues).
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHORS
See the accompanying \fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR textiosrc (5),
.BR htmlios (1),
.BR vim (1),
.BR curl (1)
